What is Amazon S3?
------------------
Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service that offers industryleading scalability, data availability, security, and performance.
Customers of all sizes and
industries can use Amazon S3 to store and protect any amount of data for a range of use
cases, such as data lakes, websites, mobile applications, backup and restore, archive, enterprise
applications, IoT devices, and big data analytics. Amazon S3 provides management features so
that you can optimize, organize, and configure access to your data to meet your specific business,
organizational, and compliance requirements
Features of Amazon S3
---------------------
Storage classes
---------------
	S3 Standard or S3 Express One Zone for frequent access
	S3 Standard-IA or S3 One Zone-IA
	S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval, S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval, and S3 Glacier Deep Archive
	
	You can store data with changing or unknown access patterns in S3 Intelligent-Tiering, which
	optimizes storage costs by automatically moving your data between four access tiers when your
	access patterns change. These four access tiers include two low-latency access tiers optimized for
	frequent and infrequent access, and two opt-in archive access tiers designed for asynchronous
	access for rarely accessed data.

Storage management
------------------	
	Amazon S3 has storage management features that you can use to manage costs, meet regulatory
	requirements, reduce latency, and save multiple distinct copies of your data for compliance
	requirements.
	S3 Lifecycle 
	S3 Object Lock 
	S3 Replication 
	S3 Batch Operations 
Access management and security
------------------------------
	Amazon S3 provides features for auditing and managing access to your buckets and objects. By
	default, S3 buckets and the objects in them are private. You have access only to the S3 resources
	that you create. To grant granular resource permissions that support your specific use case or to
	audit the permissions of your Amazon S3 resources, you can use the following features
	
	->S3 Block Public Access – Block public access to S3 buckets and objects
	->AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) – IAM is a web service that helps you securely control access to AWS resources, including your Amazon S3 resources
	->Bucket policies – Use IAM-based policy language to configure resource-based permissions for your S3 buckets and the objects in them.
	->Amazon S3 access points – Configure named network endpoints with dedicated access policies to manage data access at scale for shared datasets in Amazon S3.
	->Access control lists (ACLs) – Grant read and write permissions for individual buckets and objects to authorized users
	->S3 Object Ownership – Take ownership of every object in your bucket, simplifying access management for data stored in Amazon S3. S3 Object Ownership is an Amazon S3 bucketlevel setting that you can use to disable or enable ACLs.
	->IAM Access Analyzer for S3 – Evaluate and monitor your S3 bucket access policies, ensuring that the policies provide only the intended access to your S3 resources
Data processing
---------------
	To transform data and trigger workflows to automate a variety of other processing activities at
	scale, you can use the following features.
	->S3 Object Lambda 
	->Event notifications 
Storage logging and monitoring
------------------------------
	Amazon S3 provides logging and monitoring tools that you can use to monitor and control how
	your Amazon S3 resources are being used.
	Automated monitoring tools
		Amazon CloudWatch metrics for Amazon S3  -  Track the operational health of your S3 resources and configure billing alerts when estimated charges reach a user-defined threshold
		AWS CloudTrail - Record actions taken by a user, a role, or an AWS service in Amazon S3
	Manual monitoring tools
		Server access logging 
		AWS Trusted Advisor 
Analytics and insights
----------------------

	
	